 

 

power. Possibility.

 

oe
Central Hudson

A FORTIS COMPANY

Payment Options ——_______
* eBills: Receive your bills electronically
and pay electronically from your bank

account.

+ Direct Pay: Your payment will be
deducted automatically from your bank
account, whether you receive a paper
bill or eBill.

+ Credit/Debit card: By phone
(1-888-909-4634) or on our website
(www.CentralHudson.com).

* ezPay: One-time payment available on
our website. You will need your Central
Hudson account number and your
banking information.

+ Pay by text: Pay your account
balance. Register for our text messaging
service online by logging in at
www.CentralHudson.com. You may also
register for this service by texting REG
to 236483 (CenHud). If your cell phone
number is not on file in our records you
will need your Central Hudson account
number to complete registration by text.

+ Pay by phone: 845-452-2700 or
1-800-527-2714. Have your Central
Hudson account number and bank
account information handy.

+ Pay through U.S. mail: Return
your bill stub and check in the return
envelope provided. When you provide a
check as a payment, you authorize
Central Hudson either to use information
from your check to make a one-time
electronic fund transfer from your
account or to process the payment as a
check transaction.

+ Pay in person at an authorized
payment location. Be sure to include
your bill stub to ensure proper credit.

Additional information on payment options.
and a listing of convenient authorized bill
payment locations can be found at
www.CentralHudson.com.

Payment agreement options &
billing accuracy: You are entitled to
pay your bill in installments with a payment
agreement based on your financial
circumstances, and/or when your
scheduled meter reading usage is
estimated; i.e., if the next actual meter
Teading shows we underestimated your
usage by more than 50 percent or $100,
you can pay the amount of the difference in
installments.

Contact Information

Keep your contact information current by
logging into our website at
www.CentralHudson.com/Mylnfo, and
updating your mailing address, phone
number and email.

Rev. 08/2019

For Your Information

Inquiries: Please refer to your account number shown on this

bill when making inquiries. Representatives are available by
telephone, Monday through Friday 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.,

and Saturday 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.; call 845-452-2700 or
1-800-527-2714.

Employee Identification: For your protection, our
employees carry an official card bearing the employee's name
and photograph. Please ask to see it.

Senior Identification Program: We provide special
protections and services for seniors. If you are age 60 or older,
please contact us to enroll in our confidential Senior
Identification Program.

Life Support Equipment: If life support equipment, such
as a kidney machine or 24-hour respirator, is being used by you
or another member of the household, please let us know.

Late Payment Charge: Bills are due when rendered. To
avoid a late payment charge of 1.5 percent per month, your
payment must be received by the date shown on your bill stub.
Deposit Requirements: We may require a security
deposit if your account is in arrears or if we have terminated
service for nonpayment. Please contact us for further
information on deposit requirements.

Budget Billing: To levelize your bills throughout the year at
an equal monthly amount, call us and ask about Budget Billing.
Rate Schedules: Rate schedules are available at our 284 South
Ave., Poughkeepsie, office and on our website.

Unmetered Service: Usage for unmetered lighting
accounts is based on wattage and estimated hours of operation.
Right to an actual meter read: Upon the discontinuation
of utility service, customers may obtain, upon request , an actual
meter reading. A $25 special meter reading fee may apply. The
meter reading will be obtained within 48 hours, not including
holidays or non-work day. Full access to the meter(s) is
required.

 

Definition of General Billing Terms

Full-Service Customers: Customers who purchase
electricity and/or gas supply from Central Hudson for delivery
through our wires or pipes.

ESCO-Service Customers: Customers enrolled in our
Customer Choice Program, who purchase electricity and/or gas
from an independent energy supply company (ESCO) for
delivery through Central Hudson's wires or pipes.

Meter Multiplier: A conversion factor used for a meter
designed to record only a portion of energy use.

NYS & Local Taxes: Taxes and surcharges imposed upon
Central Hudson by the state of New York and/or local
authorities, to be collected from all customers.

Heating Degree Days: A method of measuring the severity
of winters. A higher degree-day number represents a colder time
period. For more information about degree days and energy
conservation, visit our website at www.CentralHudson.com.
kWh: Kilowatt hour, a measured volume of electricity. kW is a
maximum measured rate of electricity.

Ccf: Hundreds of cubic feet, a measured volume of gas.

 

Definition of Delivery Charges ———__________
Basic Service Charge: A pro-rated 30-day charge for
maintenance and account administrative costs; billed whether or
not you use electricity or gas during the billing period.
Delivery Service Charge: The cost of delivering
electricity or gas to customers, whether purchased from Central
Hudson or another supplier.

MFC Administration Charge: A charge to reflect the
administrative costs Central Hudson incurs to support the
provision of electric and natural gas.

Transition Adjustment: A charge that balances the costs
of converting customer from full-service to ESCO-service.

Bill Credit: A mechanism to refund a regulatory balance
owed to customers.

Revenue Decoupling Mechanism (RDM): A
mechanism intended to minimize the impact to Central Hudson
resulting from reduced energy consumption as efficiency

programs are implemented. For certain gas heating customers,
the RDM will reflect a separate Weather Normalization
Adjustment to adjust gas delivery charges due to variations from
normal weather for October through May.

System Benefits Charge (SBC)/Renewable
Portfolio Standard (RPS): Incremental state-mandated
electric and gas charges to fund energy efficiency programs,
assistance for low-income customers, energy research and
development, increase renewable resources, and other
initiatives. An additional cost may be included in this line item
associated with the Clean Energy Standard, explained below.
Purchased Power Adjustment: A mechanism to refund
to electric customers the benefits associated with the revenue
sharing agreement with the owner of one of Central Hudson's
former electric generating plants.

Miscellaneous Charge: A mechanism to refund/recover
from electric customers the benefits/cost associated with Central
Hudson's retained electric generation and mandatory power
purchases. An additional cost included in this electric line item
for non-demand customers is the MISC II charge explained
below. For gas customers, a mechanism to refund/recover
interruptible refunds/surcharges applicable to SC No. 11
customers, Earnings Adjustment Mechanism and Rate
Adjustment Mechanism.

MISC II: Amechanism to recover from electric customers the
cost associated with the Company's Targeted Demand
Response Program, the Company's Distributed System
Implementation Plan, the costs associated with certain elements
of Value Stack Compensation related to the purchase of
generation, the Company's Commercial System Relief Program,
Earnings Adjustment Mechanism and Rate Adjustment
Mechanism.

Definition of Supply Charges —————_—______.
MFC Supply Charge: A charge to reflect the costs Central
Hudson incurs associated with purchasing electric and natural
gas supply for full-service customers.

Market Price: The average monthly price per kWh Central
Hudson pays for electric supply for full-service customers.
Additional costs included in this line item are state-mandated
charges to recover costs associated with supporting renewable
and zero emission power sources.

Market Price Adjustment: An adjustment (credit or
charge) to the previous month’s Market Price for differences
caused by the timing of billing and collection.

Gas Supply Charge: The average monthly price per Ccf
Central Hudson incurs for gas supply for full-service customers.
Clean Energy Standard (CES): A state-mandated
initiative to reduce emissions from power sources by 40 percent
from 1990 levels by 2030, and 80 percent by 2050; and produce
50 percent of electricity from renewable sources by 2030.
Charges to recover costs associated with supporting renewable
and zero-emissions power sources are included within the
supply portion of the bill of all New York utility and energy
service companies

Customer Choice Billing ————————_————_.
Consolidated Bill Credit: A credit will be provided on bills
issued as a result of a regular meter reading for ESCO-electric
and/or gas service customers receiving one consolidated bill for
Central Hudson delivery charges and the ESCO’s supply
charges. This credit represents certain costs that we no longer
incur to provide service to you; and the amount is subject to
change and approval by the PSC.

MFC Administration Charge: (see definition above);
ESCO-service customers receiving a separate bill from their
supplier are not billed this charge.

MFC Supply Charge: (see definition above);
ESCO-service customers are not billed this charge.
Transportation Demand Adjustment (TDA): For gas
ESCO-service customers, a mechanism to recover costs of
state-mandated programs and refund benefits of specific types
of gas sales. These amounts are included in the Gas Supply
Charge for full-service customers.

 

 
